Path: 2 -> 3 -> 5 -> 6 -> 114 -> 61 -> 106 -> 113

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 5 ===
Page 5

You wait until morning, but, as the rosy wisps of
dawn begin to light the eastern sky, a chill and
forbidding wind begins to blow.

If you seek shelter, turn to page 6.

If you brave the freezing wind to
see more of the coed abou you,
tum to page 16.

=== Step 4: Page 6 ===
Page 6

="

6

You step into a niche in the rocks to escape the
merciless blast of wind and lean back against the
rock wall. Suddenly it crumbles under your
weight, causing you to fall backward down a
muddy slope and into a pond.

The sun shines brightly down on youas you pick
yourself up, dripping wet, and wade to the grassy
shore. You look back at the rock, rising out of the
pond, but you can’t see where you fell through.

While you are collecting your senses, a horse
comes prancing up, its rider dressed in tin
armor—a knight out of the history books—
enough to make you laugh. The horseman lifts off
his helmet and laughs himself.

“What a place for a bath!” he calls out. “Well, it
was worth it—you re cleaner than a pig!’ He al-
most falls off his horse, he is laughing so hard. “But
climb on and I'll take you back to the castle,”’ he
says. ‘We'll see if we can’t make a human out of
you yet.”

If you accept the ride back to
the castle, tun to page 22.

If you decline the invitation and
try to find your way back into the
Cave of Time, tum to page 114.

=== Step 5: Page 114 ===
Page 114

There is a certain tone in the knight’s laughter
that does not inspire your trust, so you thank him
graciously and tell him you have other business to

attend to,
“Then go toit,” the knight replies. “Take care to

keep your business drier than yourself!”
He gallops off in a rush. You are glad to be rid of
him.
Eager to find the entrance to the Cave of Time,
you climb up behind the rock wall that slopes into
the pond. After searching for an hour, you find a
tunnel leading underground.

Tum to page 61.

=== Step 6: Page 61 ===
Page 61

You follow the tunnel downward a short dis-
tance, suddenly you are sliding. Your head strikes
something and you are knocked unconscious.

When you wake up, you find yourself by a small
lake, bordered by woods. A boy about twelve
years old is fishing nearby, but there is no one else
in sight. You go up and introduce yourself, hoping
you can find out what year it is without sounding
crazy.

Fortunately, the boy is friendly and good na-
tured. He tells you his name is Nick Tyler and that
he lives on Birch Street. He works in his father’s
business making candles and soap—the best in the
Colonies, he says.

If you tell him you come from
a future time, tum to page 104. 2

If you try to make up a
believable story, tum to page 106.

=== Step 7: Page 106 ===
Page 106

You do your best to make up a story about how
you ran away from home, but Nick sees that you
are not telling him the truth. While you’re talking,
he packs up his fishing gear, says goodbye, and
walks off.

Once he is out of sight, you start down the road
and, after a mile or so, reach a settled area. While
youare standing near a church, wondering what to
do next, a constable approaches and asks where
you're from. This time you try to explain what
really happened. After listening awhile, he arrests
you for disorderly conduct and locks you up in the

local jail.
Later in the day, a big, stupid-looking guard
i comes to bring you a ration of soup and bread. He
4 is fascinated by your strange clothes and by the

i rumors he has heard about you. After opening the
door to your cell, he hands you your food and
i stands back and looks at you curiously.
“They say you're in league with the devil,” he
says. “Is it so?”

If you try to run past the guard
and escape, tum to page 111.

7) If you tell him you are innocent,
turn to page 113.

=== Step 8: Page 113 ===
Page 113

: When you tell the guard you are innocent, he
scowls and slams shut the door of the cell. “You'll
not take me to the devil with you!” he calls back as
he walks away.

The next day you are brought into a courtroom
before a stern looking judge. After hearing the
charges against you and listening to what you have
to say, he shakes his head and scowls angrily.
Then he looks at the prosecutor and pounds his fist
on the bench.

“Your charge against this person is for disor-
derly conduct, but the specifications you give are
‘strange clothes and telling stories invented by the
devil.” What you really are charging is witchcraft!
There will be no such madness in my court and let
me have none of it again from you! Case dis-
missed.”

The judge not only sets you free, but afterwards
gives you a home to live in and helps you on your

way to a good and happy life in the Eighteenth
Century.

The End
