Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 21 -> 35 -> 80

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 21 ===
Page 21

; You turn and walk back out of the cave. It
| should be dawn by now, but, as you grope your
way toward the entrance, you can’t see any light
: coming into the cave. You press against the walls,
feeling for an opening. Your hands pass across
something cold, wet, and hard. Ice! The entrance
is sealed by it. Blocks of ice protrude into the cave.
You step back, feeling confused and helpless.
You wish it were just a dream. You retrace your
steps a way, trying to think clearly. You know that
your only chance to get out of the cave is to follow
one of the two branches before you.

If you follow the right branch,
tum to page 33.

If you follow the left branch,
tum to page 35.

=== Step 6: Page 35 ===
Page 35

You walk along the left-hand passageway, pass-
ing tunnels from time to time, none of which looks
like a particularly appealing route. You decide to
see if you can reach the end of the passageway.

You walk on and on, hour after hour. Then, in
the distance, you see a figure approaching—a girl
wearing blue jeans and a red sweater and carrying
a backpack. She tells you that her name is Louisa
and that she was exploring a cave and got lost. She
does not know she is in the Cave of Time.

If you try to help Louisa find the way
back to where she entered the cave,
= tum to page 76.

If you suggest she try one of
the tunnels with you as a way out,
tum to page 80.

=== Step 7: Page 80 ===
Page 80

“Since you can’t find your way to your own
time,” you say, “perhaps we can find my time.”
You lead her back a short distance, until you
come to an unusually wide tunnel. You stop, and
Louisa looks at you inquiringly. ‘‘Let’s try this
one,” you say.

After traveling almost an hour, the two of you
smile with joy to see light ahead, and you soon
come out of the tunnel and stand on reddish
sandy ground, surveying a saucer-shaped terrain.
The air is as fresh and clear as on a crisp, fall day.
You guess that you may be in the crater of an
extinct volcano. Suddenly, there is a thundering
roar behind you. Louisa and you run from a
landslide that buries the tunnel leading back to
the Cave of Time.

“T wonder what year it is?”’ Louisa asks, after
the two of you have collected your wits.

For the first time you look up at the sun. It is
four times as large as the sun you knew, though
not as bright. It is almost directly overhead, yet its
color is a rusty red.

“T don’t know the answer,” you reply, “but
from what I’ve read about astronomy, I would
guess it’s the year 2,000—plus about four billion
years.”

The End
