Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 8 -> 9 -> 18 -> 19 -> 30 -> 92 -> 93 -> 32 -> 58 -> 59 -> 62

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 8 ===
Page 8

As it gets lighter, you realize you can’t be on the
right track. The canyon seems shallower than it
was. The river bed is strewn with boulders that
were never there before. The cold wind chills you
to the bone; yet it’s the middle of summer. As you
climb to higher ground to get a better view, you
notice patches of snow. From the top of a ridge
you survey a barren plain, frozen lakes, and, in the }
distance, a massive range of snow-covered moun-
tains. You begin to realize you are not merely
lost—you are lost in time, and you have somehow
been transported to an Ice Age that occurred many
thousands of years ago.

=== Step 5: Page 9 ===
Page 9

You walk toward one of the cliffs that borders
the canyon, seeking shelter from the wind, and
notice an entrance to another cave. You are
tempted to go inside, but you feel you should keep
moving in hopes of somehow reaching familiar
country.

If you enter the cave,
tum to page 17.

If you continue on,
tum to page 18.

=== Step 6: Page 18 ===
Page 18

You continue on, following a trail leading up a
steep incline. You hear loud, trumpeting sounds
from a nearby ravine—the sounds of a large ani-
mal.You climb over some rocks and find yourself

=== Step 7: Page 19 ===
Page 19

looking down on one of the largest land mammals
that ever lived—the wooly mammoth. Huge as
this creature is, its size is exaggerated even more by
its thick coat of wool.

You are cold, desperate, and tired. From your
rock ledge, only a few feet over the mammoth, you
could drop down on its back, burrow into its warm
wool, and ride where it takes you!

If you jump down on
} the wooly mammoth,
turn to page 29.

If you continue on foot,
tum to page 30.

=== Step 8: Page 30 ===
Page 30

Riding on a mammoth might be fun if you were
not cold and hungry and lost, but where would it
take you? You continue walking, your spirits sink-
ing. Just as you feel ready to sit down and cry, you
see an opening in the ground. You crawl in on
your hands and knees. It might provide some
warmth, and it might lead to the Cave of Time.

You find yourself in a tunnel. There are other
tunnels branching off. You feel sure now you are in
the Cave of Time. You are eager to take the next
tunnel to the surface, but you want to travel a long
way forward in time. Maybe you should take a
tunnel further on.

If you take the first tunnel
that you can, turn to page 54.

If you take a tunnel further on,
turn to page 92.

=== Step 9: Page 92 ===
Page 92

Youcontinue a long distance until you come to
the next tunnel. From there it is only a short dis-
tance until you reach the surface. An amazing sight
meets your eyes.

‘As far as you can see, the land looks like a
beautiful park, with soft, feathery grass and tower-
ing trees. Here and there are clusters of multi-
colored, dome-shaped buildings, connected by
ramps, terraces and walkways. Some people
dressed in simple khaki pants and shirts and tan
sneakers walk up to you. They do not understand
your language, nor you theirs They look much
like the people of your time except that they are
unusually trim, muscular, and healthy looking,
and they are a good deal smaller than your own
people.

They take you inside a dome-shaped building
and show you electronic equipment that looks like
acomputer. You notice a typewriter, so you sit at it
and type a message.

The computer prints out a reply. It apparently
has access to memory banks containing your lan-
guage. You soon discover you are livingin the year
3742.

Tur to page 56.

=== Step 10: Page 93 ===
Page 93

You dive down into the tunnel, hoping you can
t make it back to an earlier time. Gratefully, you feel
? cool, damp air coming up from the cave. You are
curious to try the next tunnel you come to, thinking
: that it may show the state of the world just before it
; began to burn up from the intensifying heat of the
: dying sun, or that it might show what happened
afterward! But you suspect that a tunnel further on
might be more likely to lead you back to your own

time.

If you take the first tunnel,
tum to page 31.

If you take a tunnel further along
the way, turn to page 32

=== Step 11: Page 32 ===
Page 32

1g? 1

After following the passageway for a consider-
able distance, you enter a very large tunnel that
seems as likely as any to lead you back to your own
time. You continue along and soon notice that the
floor of the tunnel is becoming sandier. Perhaps
you are coming to a beach. Then the sand gives
way under your feet; you slide through sand and
rising dust. You cannot stop yourself—it is too

4 steep; then there is nothing under your feet, anda

} moment later you land in deep water. You swim to
the surface and catch your breath. You are in an
underwater grotto, which seems completely
sealed off except for a portion of its roof that is
open to the blue sky. You swim to a large, smooth
rock sloping into the water.

The sand is white, and the water transparent.
The rocks are made of crystalline material of the

fh most delicate shades of blue. For a moment you

+ are overwhelmed by the beauty of the scene be-

4 fore you, but you soon begin to wonder whether
youcan escape from it. There is no way of climbing
out through the opening in the roof.

You dive down in hopes of finding an underwa-
ter passageway that might lead to freedom, and
you find one! But could you swim through it before
running out of air?

‘ If you try to swim through
the undenwater tunnel,
tum to page 58.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 64.

=== Step 12: Page 58 ===
Page 58

You take a deep breath, dive down, and swim
through the tunnel. There is light ahead. In a mo-
ment you surface in a beautiful lagoon. Thatched
cottages are nestled among the palm trees that rim
the white sand beach. A warm, soft breeze brings
the scent of jasmine and the sound of strange
melodies from sonorous drums. Looking out to
the inlet from the sea, you can see a fleet of outrig-
ger skiffs with multi-colored sails running into the
lagoons before the wind, their owners leaning
against the booms to hold the sails out.

You walk toward the village. Several hand-
some, brown-skinned people see you. Some of
them run away, but others walk toward you with
hands held up in salute. Two children, holding
garlands of flowers, run up to you. Someone
calls—‘‘Aloha!”’

Soon you are sitting in front of a huge beach fire,
cooking crabs and eating buana cake. Having
never had a visitor before, your hosts are happy to
see you. They welcome you into their society.
Gradually you learn their language. The boys tell
you they are your brothers; the girls that they are
your sisters.

You enjoy life in this new paradise, but you still
wonder whether there might be a way to get back

=== Step 13: Page 59 ===
Page 59

to the Cave of Time. Your new friends are unable
to help. Perhaps if you journeyed inland you could
find some who could. Your friends warn you
against trying, however. They tell you that you will
find only terrible jungles and rivers filled with
crocodiles.

If you remain with your new friends,
tum to page 62.

If you joumey inland, tum to page 63.

=== Step 14: Page 62 ===
Page 62

Your friends are understanding about your wish
to find the way back to your own time, but they tell
you they can show you something you never
dreamed of. Since their society is very primitive,
you wonder what they could have in mind.

Next day they lead you to another cove where
the waves roll in, rise up against the cliff and then
roll out again. Sometimes the waves clap against
each other and senda foamy spray of water high in
the air. You see some young people on tiny
rafts—nothing more than surfboards—riding in on
the crests of the waves and then riding them out on
the rebound. In a few hours you have learned a
sport that brings excitement and fascination for
hour after hour.

With such delights as this, it is not long before
you lose interest in returning to your own time.
Sometimes you wonder, but you never learn,
whether this paradise lies in the future or the past.

The End
