Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 61 -> 104 -> 105 -> 107 -> 108

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 61 ===
Page 61

You follow the tunnel downward a short dis-
tance, suddenly you are sliding. Your head strikes
something and you are knocked unconscious.

When you wake up, you find yourself by a small
lake, bordered by woods. A boy about twelve
years old is fishing nearby, but there is no one else
in sight. You go up and introduce yourself, hoping
you can find out what year it is without sounding
crazy.

Fortunately, the boy is friendly and good na-
tured. He tells you his name is Nick Tyler and that
he lives on Birch Street. He works in his father’s
business making candles and soap—the best in the
Colonies, he says.

If you tell him you come from
a future time, tum to page 104. 2

If you try to make up a
believable story, tum to page 106.

=== Step 6: Page 104 ===
Page 104

ij When you tell him you come from theTwentieth
Century through the Cave of Time, Nick smiles.
Then you tell him a little about life in your own
time—about cars and planes, telephones and tele-
vision. He listens intently, with a big grin on his
face, as if youare telling th funniest story ever told
“Pm so glad to meet you,” Nick says. “Tve
always wanted to know about life in the Twentieth
Century.” He tries to look serious, but begins to
laugh, thinking it’s all a joke.
“Seriously,” you say, (since you know he will
i 4 never believe you) “Ihave no home Do you know
of a place where I can stay?”

=== Step 7: Page 105 ===
Page 105

“Tm sure you can stay at our house,” he says
warmly. ““We have such a big family, one more
won't matter, but you must be willing to work in
the shop with the rest of us.”

Since you feel you hardly have any other
choice, you accept his offer and feel grateful when
his parents give you a good dinner and a comfort-
able bed. Nick tells you, with much seriousness,
that you are living in the year 1718 in Boston, the
principal town in the British colony of Mas-
sachusetts.

You soon become one of the family. They are
good people and treat you well. But each day you
have to work long hours boiling soap and pouring
it into molds, waiting on customers and doing
errands for Nick’s father, whom you have come to
know as Uncle Ted.

Your neighbor, Mr. Nelson, is a printer. He re-
cently returned from England with a printing press
and letter type he bought there. The business in-
terests you, and you consider working as his ap-
prentice, but to do so you would have to sign
papers indenturing yourself to work faithfully for
him for six full years.

If you decide to stay at home and
continue to work for Uncle Ted,
tum to page 107.

If you decide to be indentured
to be an apprentice in Mr. Nelson’s
printing business, turn to page 109.

=== Step 8: Page 107 ===
Page 107

Although you feel you would probably enjoy
the printing business more than a career as a soap
maker, you wish to remain free to take advantage
of some other opportunity.

The work with Uncle Ted is tedious. You feel
you could not bear life devoted to making candles
and soap. You spend most of your spare time
reading what books you can lay hold of, but you
are anxious to travel and see the world.

Not long afterwards, you sign up on the brigan-
tine, Nina, as a deck hand. The ship is owned by a
tich merchant, and it is bound for Barbados in the
West Indies with a load of lumber and then on to
England.

You find life at sea much harder than you ex-

=== Step 9: Page 108 ===
Page 108

pected, especially when you are required to climb
the rigging in a howling gale, but eventually you
become captain of your own ship. In every place
you visit you ask the people you meet whether
they have ever heard of the Cave of Time.

The End
