Path: 2 -> 3 -> 5 -> 16 -> 24 -> 40 -> 83 -> 85

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 5 ===
Page 5

You wait until morning, but, as the rosy wisps of
dawn begin to light the eastern sky, a chill and
forbidding wind begins to blow.

If you seek shelter, turn to page 6.

If you brave the freezing wind to
see more of the coed abou you,
tum to page 16.

=== Step 4: Page 16 ===
Page 16

You resolutely trudge along a rocky ridge. It has
been cleared of whirling snow by the fierce wind,
which bites and blows against your body.

The world seems transformed, and much for the
worse. You must find a house or a cabin—people
who can help you—or you will die.

As you ponder your fate, you stumble and fall,
plunging into a deep crevasse. You black out and
later awaken, still shivering, but in a warmer place
at least. By the dim amber light, you can see that
somehow you have fallen back into one of the
chambers in the Cave of Time. A passageway
leads to the right, another to the left. Does one lead
to the future and one to the past?

If you enter the left-hand passageway,
tum to page 24.

If you enter the right-hand passageway,
tum to page 25.

=== Step 5: Page 24 ===
Page 24

You follow the left passageway. It leads upward
to the surface. Before you, a grassy meadow
slopes down to a clear, fast-flowing stream; be-
yond it are pine-covered foothills stretching in the
distance toward snow-covered peaks. You might
be in Wyoming in your own time, but, whatever

: time it is, the world you see appears to be a hospi-
i table one.
i You notice a herd of buffalo grazing. But
i nowhere can you see a house, or fence, or road, or
| any sign of human presence. It is possible you are
living hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years ago.
| You gaze upward. One of the puffy, white
| cumulus clouds is moving in a strange fashion. It is
| descending! A spaceship is landing right before
your eyes, only a few hundred yards away!

If you hide from view,
tum to page 38.

Tf you go up to the spaceship,
tum to page 40.

=== Step 6: Page 40 ===
Page 40

You cautiously approach the spaceship and, to
your amazement, see that it is resting a foot or so
above the ground, without any visible mechanism
keeping it aloft. There are no engines, rocket
exhausts, port holes, landing gear, antennae, or
any equipment you might imagine a spaceship
would need. You realize it must be the product ofa
supremely advanced civilization.

Trusting that such people have leamed to be
loving toward others, you approach the ship. A
portal slides open, but all you can see within is
shimmering blue light. A large cube is thrust out
through the portal and lowered to the ground by
mechanical arms. The top of the cube is with-
drawn, leaving a pallet on which lie the sleeping
forms of three men and three women, dressed in
shrouds of animal skin. Their bodies and features
remind you of pictures you have seen depicting
the earliest men on earth. You have an impulse to
up aboard the spaceship before the portal
closes.

If you do, tum to page 115.

If not, tum to page 83.

=== Step 7: Page 83 ===
Page 83

Much as you would like to see the inside of the
alien ship, you have no desire to be whisked off
into space. You step back to what you hope is a
safe distance and watch what happens. In a mo-
ment the portal closes, and almost instantly the
ship rises, silently, straight up. Within a few min-
utes it is lost from view. You walk over to look
more closely at the primitive looking people sleep-
ing on the pallet. They begin to stir and stretch and
rub their eyes as if waking from a long sleep.

If you stay and try to make
friends with the primitive people,
tum to page 85.

If you retum to the hill and try
to find your way back to the
Cave of Time, tum to page 84.

=== Step 8: Page 85 ===
Page 85

The people look around curiously. They hardly
seem to notice your presence. One by one they get
up and walk around. One of them drinks from the
stream. They make grunting and clicking noises,
but do not seem to be actually talking among
themselves. The largest of the group picks up a
stick from the ground and begins prying up the
roots of plants along the edge of the stream. He
bites at each one. Finally he smiles and passes the
root around to the others. One woman claps her
hands. The others begin to find sticks. One of the
men hands you a piece of root. You bite at it. It
tastes like a dirty carrot. The women smile at you.
You are accepted in the group.

The next morning you wake up in the soft mossy
bank in Snake Cavern, a few dozen yards from the
entrance to the cave, wondering how much of
what has been happening to you has been a
dream and how much has been reality. But you
have no desire to go into the Cave of Time again.

The End
