Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 21 -> 33 -> 34 -> 79 -> 86

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 21 ===
Page 21

; You turn and walk back out of the cave. It
| should be dawn by now, but, as you grope your
way toward the entrance, you can’t see any light
: coming into the cave. You press against the walls,
feeling for an opening. Your hands pass across
something cold, wet, and hard. Ice! The entrance
is sealed by it. Blocks of ice protrude into the cave.
You step back, feeling confused and helpless.
You wish it were just a dream. You retrace your
steps a way, trying to think clearly. You know that
your only chance to get out of the cave is to follow
one of the two branches before you.

If you follow the right branch,
tum to page 33.

If you follow the left branch,
tum to page 35.

=== Step 6: Page 33 ===
Page 33

You make your way along in the dim light.
Ahead of you is a ladder. You take hold of it and
begin to climb. Suddenly you hear a terrible grind-
ing, crunching noise. The ladder shudders. You
hold on tight for a few minutes after the noise
subsides. Then you continue up the ladder and a
moment later pull yourself out into the crisp, cold
night air. Lights are glowing all around you. In
front of you is a large slab of ice. You feel a strange
motion as if the ground is moving. When you
touch the ground with your hand, you feel wood.
Not far from you is a railing. Beyond it—the sea!
Above you are stars more numerous and brilliant
than you have seen before. You realize you are on
the deck of a very large ship.

Not far from you, hanging on a hook, is an
enormous life preserver. Stenciled on it in-black
letters is the word TITANIC. You know there was
only one ship that ever bore that name, that it
made only one voyage, that it struck a huge
iceberg, and that three hours later it was resting on
the bottom of the Atlantic.

As you walk along the deck of the Titanic, you
realize that below the water line thousands of gal-
lons of water per minute are pouring into the for-
ward compartments. The people don’t seem to

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 7: Page 34 ===
Page 34

realize what's happening. The sea is as calm as
glass. The band on the deck below youis playinga
waltz. Several men in long black coats and women
in fur jackets are walking close by.
; “Goodness,” one woman says, “I can’t under-
stand why the captain has stopped the ship. If we
are late docking in New York, I’m going to lodge a
complaint with the owners.”

If you try to find the captain and
wam him that the ship will sink,
tum to page 68.

If you go back down the ladder
and try to retum to the cave,
| tum to page 79.

=== Step 8: Page 79 ===
Page 79

You have no wish to risk sinking with the Titanic,
so you climb back down the ladder into the hold of
the ship—hoping that somehow you will find your
way back to the cave. In your haste, you lose your
gripand fall. You reach out, but too late. You land
so hard you are knocked out. When you awaken,
you are in one of the passageways of the cave.

If you explore the passageway,
tum to page 86.

If you decide to check out
the outer entrance to the
cave again, turn to page 88.

=== Step 9: Page 86 ===
Page 86

You walk on and on, hoping the passageway
will lead you to your own time. You soon come to
a tunnel that leads into a dark, musty room re-
sembling the cellar of a large house. There are a
great many people huddled in groups, sitting on
blankets in complete darkness save for the light of
a few flickering candles. You hear the dismal wail
of a siren, Near the center of the room an old-
fashioned radio sits on the table playing a mixture
of classical music and static. Then the sirens stop,
the ground shakes, and you hear a tremendous
explosion nearby, then another further away, then
another so close that a wall and half the ceiling
come crashing down in a pile of rubble, blocking
the tunnel. You and the others scramble to the
| opposite side of the room, coughing and gasping
in the dust-filled air.

You are about to begin a new life. The year is
1940; the place, London.

The End
