Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 21 -> 33 -> 34 -> 68 -> 69

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 21 ===
Page 21

; You turn and walk back out of the cave. It
| should be dawn by now, but, as you grope your
way toward the entrance, you can’t see any light
: coming into the cave. You press against the walls,
feeling for an opening. Your hands pass across
something cold, wet, and hard. Ice! The entrance
is sealed by it. Blocks of ice protrude into the cave.
You step back, feeling confused and helpless.
You wish it were just a dream. You retrace your
steps a way, trying to think clearly. You know that
your only chance to get out of the cave is to follow
one of the two branches before you.

If you follow the right branch,
tum to page 33.

If you follow the left branch,
tum to page 35.

=== Step 6: Page 33 ===
Page 33

You make your way along in the dim light.
Ahead of you is a ladder. You take hold of it and
begin to climb. Suddenly you hear a terrible grind-
ing, crunching noise. The ladder shudders. You
hold on tight for a few minutes after the noise
subsides. Then you continue up the ladder and a
moment later pull yourself out into the crisp, cold
night air. Lights are glowing all around you. In
front of you is a large slab of ice. You feel a strange
motion as if the ground is moving. When you
touch the ground with your hand, you feel wood.
Not far from you is a railing. Beyond it—the sea!
Above you are stars more numerous and brilliant
than you have seen before. You realize you are on
the deck of a very large ship.

Not far from you, hanging on a hook, is an
enormous life preserver. Stenciled on it in-black
letters is the word TITANIC. You know there was
only one ship that ever bore that name, that it
made only one voyage, that it struck a huge
iceberg, and that three hours later it was resting on
the bottom of the Atlantic.

As you walk along the deck of the Titanic, you
realize that below the water line thousands of gal-
lons of water per minute are pouring into the for-
ward compartments. The people don’t seem to

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 7: Page 34 ===
Page 34

realize what's happening. The sea is as calm as
glass. The band on the deck below youis playinga
waltz. Several men in long black coats and women
in fur jackets are walking close by.
; “Goodness,” one woman says, “I can’t under-
stand why the captain has stopped the ship. If we
are late docking in New York, I’m going to lodge a
complaint with the owners.”

If you try to find the captain and
wam him that the ship will sink,
tum to page 68.

If you go back down the ladder
and try to retum to the cave,
| tum to page 79.

=== Step 8: Page 68 ===
Page 68

Could you change history and save hundreds of
lives by warning the captain that the “unsinkable”’
Titanic is destined for the bottom of the Atlantic?
You see some stairs leading to a higher deck, and
you run up them.

A steward is standing near the top. “You can’t
come up here,” he cries. But you dart past him and
run toward the forward part of the ship. You dash
up another set of stairs, where you find yourself at
the starboard wing of the bridge. The gray-
bearded captain is standing only a few feet away,
looking out to sea through his binoculars at a ship
on the horizon.

“Captain,” you call out. “You may not realize it,
but this ship will sink in only two or three hours.”

He turns and looks at you gravely. “I know,” he
says softly. “But we are going to fire distress rock-
ets. That ship out there—the Califomian—should
respond to help us.”

“They will not respond, Captain,” you tell him.
“They can’t believe the Titanic could be in trouble,
even though they see your rockets. Your only
hope is to put your strongest men in a lifeboat and
have them row toward the Califomian at top
speed—firing rockets as they approach.”

“Great heavens, you have bold ideas,” the cap-
tain replies, ‘‘but I need every man I have to lower
our lifeboats and keep order among the passen-
gers. I can’t believe the Californian will not come
when they see our rockets.

=== Step 9: Page 69 ===
Page 69

“Now go to the deck below. Mr. Lightoller will
see that you have a place in a lifeboat.”

With that the captain turns and strides away,
giving orders to an officer nearby. You sadly retum
down the stairs and wait in line for one of the
places in a lifeboat.

Two hours later, you sit huddled in the crowded
boat, shivering in the cold breeze, and watch the
great Titanic slip beneath the waves—with 1,500
people still aboard—together with your only hope
of finding your way back to the Cave of Time.

The End
