Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 21 -> 33 -> 34 -> 79 -> 88 -> 89 -> 91 -> 92 -> 93 -> 32 -> 58 -> 59 -> 62

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 21 ===
Page 21

; You turn and walk back out of the cave. It
| should be dawn by now, but, as you grope your
way toward the entrance, you can’t see any light
: coming into the cave. You press against the walls,
feeling for an opening. Your hands pass across
something cold, wet, and hard. Ice! The entrance
is sealed by it. Blocks of ice protrude into the cave.
You step back, feeling confused and helpless.
You wish it were just a dream. You retrace your
steps a way, trying to think clearly. You know that
your only chance to get out of the cave is to follow
one of the two branches before you.

If you follow the right branch,
tum to page 33.

If you follow the left branch,
tum to page 35.

=== Step 6: Page 33 ===
Page 33

You make your way along in the dim light.
Ahead of you is a ladder. You take hold of it and
begin to climb. Suddenly you hear a terrible grind-
ing, crunching noise. The ladder shudders. You
hold on tight for a few minutes after the noise
subsides. Then you continue up the ladder and a
moment later pull yourself out into the crisp, cold
night air. Lights are glowing all around you. In
front of you is a large slab of ice. You feel a strange
motion as if the ground is moving. When you
touch the ground with your hand, you feel wood.
Not far from you is a railing. Beyond it—the sea!
Above you are stars more numerous and brilliant
than you have seen before. You realize you are on
the deck of a very large ship.

Not far from you, hanging on a hook, is an
enormous life preserver. Stenciled on it in-black
letters is the word TITANIC. You know there was
only one ship that ever bore that name, that it
made only one voyage, that it struck a huge
iceberg, and that three hours later it was resting on
the bottom of the Atlantic.

As you walk along the deck of the Titanic, you
realize that below the water line thousands of gal-
lons of water per minute are pouring into the for-
ward compartments. The people don’t seem to

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 7: Page 34 ===
Page 34

realize what's happening. The sea is as calm as
glass. The band on the deck below youis playinga
waltz. Several men in long black coats and women
in fur jackets are walking close by.
; “Goodness,” one woman says, “I can’t under-
stand why the captain has stopped the ship. If we
are late docking in New York, I’m going to lodge a
complaint with the owners.”

If you try to find the captain and
wam him that the ship will sink,
tum to page 68.

If you go back down the ladder
and try to retum to the cave,
| tum to page 79.

=== Step 8: Page 79 ===
Page 79

You have no wish to risk sinking with the Titanic,
so you climb back down the ladder into the hold of
the ship—hoping that somehow you will find your
way back to the cave. In your haste, you lose your
gripand fall. You reach out, but too late. You land
so hard you are knocked out. When you awaken,
you are in one of the passageways of the cave.

If you explore the passageway,
tum to page 86.

If you decide to check out
the outer entrance to the
cave again, turn to page 88.

=== Step 9: Page 88 ===
Page 88

You walk back through the cavern, wondering if
the entrance will still be blocked by ice. This time,
though, you are greeted by a warm breeze. Sun-
light is shining on the ground near the entrance,
and you walk outside.

Squinting your eyes in the bright light, you see a
world totally different from the one you know. You
are on a hillside. For miles and miles you can see
grassy plains speckled with lakes. Nearby isa forest
of towering fers, swaying in the wind. The world
before you seems strangely quiet, except for the
faint rumbling of distant thunder. Suddenly, the
thunder seems much closer—and louder. The
thundering sound is moving through the ferns.
You run up the hill looking for a place to hide. A
huge shadow passes on the ground. Above you,
soaring through the air, is a creature larger than
any bird you have seen.

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 10: Page 89 ===
Page 89

Now it is clear what has been happening. The
cave is a crack in the universe—a place outside
space-time. Once inside its tunnels you could find
yourself at any place, at any time. If you enter
again you might be sent to a place from which you
could never escape. Yet that is your only hope of
returning to your own place and time.

If you go back into the cave,
tur to page 90.

If you remain outside,
turn to page 91.

=== Step 11: Page 91 ===
Page 91

Reasoning that you can always find your way
back into the cave when you want to, you decide
to explore the world in which you have found
yourself.

You make your way along a rock ledge over-
looking the plains and lakes, taking care to keep
your bearings so you can find your way back to the
cave.

By now you are getting very hungry. You know
that you are in the age of reptiles—at least 100
million years ago—and that mammals may not yet
have appeared on earth. There will be no rabbits
or deer to hunt, though the lakes may contain fish.
You wonder how dinosaur eggs taste.

You follow a wide path through the fern trees.
When you round the first bend, you find yourself
face to face with the horrible Triceratops, a great
gray monster almost hidden behind its shields and
horns. It looks at you curiously with dull brown
eyes. You tum, run, and crash into a tree trunk—
one that wasn’t there before!

The bark feels like leather. You look up to see
how high it is—into the jaws of Tyrannosaurus
Rex.

=== Step 12: Page 92 ===
Page 92

Youcontinue a long distance until you come to
the next tunnel. From there it is only a short dis-
tance until you reach the surface. An amazing sight
meets your eyes.

‘As far as you can see, the land looks like a
beautiful park, with soft, feathery grass and tower-
ing trees. Here and there are clusters of multi-
colored, dome-shaped buildings, connected by
ramps, terraces and walkways. Some people
dressed in simple khaki pants and shirts and tan
sneakers walk up to you. They do not understand
your language, nor you theirs They look much
like the people of your time except that they are
unusually trim, muscular, and healthy looking,
and they are a good deal smaller than your own
people.

They take you inside a dome-shaped building
and show you electronic equipment that looks like
acomputer. You notice a typewriter, so you sit at it
and type a message.

The computer prints out a reply. It apparently
has access to memory banks containing your lan-
guage. You soon discover you are livingin the year
3742.

Tur to page 56.

=== Step 13: Page 93 ===
Page 93

You dive down into the tunnel, hoping you can
t make it back to an earlier time. Gratefully, you feel
? cool, damp air coming up from the cave. You are
curious to try the next tunnel you come to, thinking
: that it may show the state of the world just before it
; began to burn up from the intensifying heat of the
: dying sun, or that it might show what happened
afterward! But you suspect that a tunnel further on
might be more likely to lead you back to your own

time.

If you take the first tunnel,
tum to page 31.

If you take a tunnel further along
the way, turn to page 32

=== Step 14: Page 32 ===
Page 32

1g? 1

After following the passageway for a consider-
able distance, you enter a very large tunnel that
seems as likely as any to lead you back to your own
time. You continue along and soon notice that the
floor of the tunnel is becoming sandier. Perhaps
you are coming to a beach. Then the sand gives
way under your feet; you slide through sand and
rising dust. You cannot stop yourself—it is too

4 steep; then there is nothing under your feet, anda

} moment later you land in deep water. You swim to
the surface and catch your breath. You are in an
underwater grotto, which seems completely
sealed off except for a portion of its roof that is
open to the blue sky. You swim to a large, smooth
rock sloping into the water.

The sand is white, and the water transparent.
The rocks are made of crystalline material of the

fh most delicate shades of blue. For a moment you

+ are overwhelmed by the beauty of the scene be-

4 fore you, but you soon begin to wonder whether
youcan escape from it. There is no way of climbing
out through the opening in the roof.

You dive down in hopes of finding an underwa-
ter passageway that might lead to freedom, and
you find one! But could you swim through it before
running out of air?

‘ If you try to swim through
the undenwater tunnel,
tum to page 58.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 64.

=== Step 15: Page 58 ===
Page 58

You take a deep breath, dive down, and swim
through the tunnel. There is light ahead. In a mo-
ment you surface in a beautiful lagoon. Thatched
cottages are nestled among the palm trees that rim
the white sand beach. A warm, soft breeze brings
the scent of jasmine and the sound of strange
melodies from sonorous drums. Looking out to
the inlet from the sea, you can see a fleet of outrig-
ger skiffs with multi-colored sails running into the
lagoons before the wind, their owners leaning
against the booms to hold the sails out.

You walk toward the village. Several hand-
some, brown-skinned people see you. Some of
them run away, but others walk toward you with
hands held up in salute. Two children, holding
garlands of flowers, run up to you. Someone
calls—‘‘Aloha!”’

Soon you are sitting in front of a huge beach fire,
cooking crabs and eating buana cake. Having
never had a visitor before, your hosts are happy to
see you. They welcome you into their society.
Gradually you learn their language. The boys tell
you they are your brothers; the girls that they are
your sisters.

You enjoy life in this new paradise, but you still
wonder whether there might be a way to get back

=== Step 16: Page 59 ===
Page 59

to the Cave of Time. Your new friends are unable
to help. Perhaps if you journeyed inland you could
find some who could. Your friends warn you
against trying, however. They tell you that you will
find only terrible jungles and rivers filled with
crocodiles.

If you remain with your new friends,
tum to page 62.

If you joumey inland, tum to page 63.

=== Step 17: Page 62 ===
Page 62

Your friends are understanding about your wish
to find the way back to your own time, but they tell
you they can show you something you never
dreamed of. Since their society is very primitive,
you wonder what they could have in mind.

Next day they lead you to another cove where
the waves roll in, rise up against the cliff and then
roll out again. Sometimes the waves clap against
each other and senda foamy spray of water high in
the air. You see some young people on tiny
rafts—nothing more than surfboards—riding in on
the crests of the waves and then riding them out on
the rebound. In a few hours you have learned a
sport that brings excitement and fascination for
hour after hour.

With such delights as this, it is not long before
you lose interest in returning to your own time.
Sometimes you wonder, but you never learn,
whether this paradise lies in the future or the past.

The End
