Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 8 -> 9 -> 17 -> 26 -> 27 -> 47 -> 48 -> 50 -> 81

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 8 ===
Page 8

As it gets lighter, you realize you can’t be on the
right track. The canyon seems shallower than it
was. The river bed is strewn with boulders that
were never there before. The cold wind chills you
to the bone; yet it’s the middle of summer. As you
climb to higher ground to get a better view, you
notice patches of snow. From the top of a ridge
you survey a barren plain, frozen lakes, and, in the }
distance, a massive range of snow-covered moun-
tains. You begin to realize you are not merely
lost—you are lost in time, and you have somehow
been transported to an Ice Age that occurred many
thousands of years ago.

=== Step 5: Page 9 ===
Page 9

You walk toward one of the cliffs that borders
the canyon, seeking shelter from the wind, and
notice an entrance to another cave. You are
tempted to go inside, but you feel you should keep
moving in hopes of somehow reaching familiar
country.

If you enter the cave,
tum to page 17.

If you continue on,
tum to page 18.

=== Step 6: Page 17 ===
Page 17

As you enter the cave, you see a flickering light
ahead and you smell smoke. You make your way
; along a winding passageway and enter a large
chamber. Fires rise out of earthen vessels.

Several short, stocky people with straight black
hair and primitive faces are painting pictures on the
/ walls of the cave. They are dressed in animal skins.
: In a comer of the cave are beds of straw.

You stand, slightly afraid, as the cave people
drop their work and run over and stare at you in
disbelief. The largest man is carrying a long vine.
He steps forward as though he might seize you and

. tie you up.

If you stay and try to make friends,
tum to page 26.

: If you try to run for it,
tum to page 28.

=== Step 7: Page 26 ===
Page 26

You make friendly gestures. The man holding
the vine steps back and smiles. The people talk to
you in a friendly fashion, but you cannot under-
stand what they are saying, nor can they under-
stand you. You feel awkward, but happy to be safe
and warm for the moment.

Several people have gone back to working on
their paintings. You decide to try communicating
through drawing. You begin to draw a picture of
yourself eating. The cave people laugh, but one of
them brings you a slice of half-cooked meat. It

=== Step 8: Page 27 ===
Page 27

don’t mind. -

Gradually you make friends and learn a few
words. Some of the people go hunting and come
back with game. Others make clothing from ani-
mal skins. You help with cleaning and cooking and
each day paint a picture on the walls. The others «
are fascinated by your drawings of airplanes, st
and cars—things they see only as abstract designs,
for they have no way of knowing what function
they could serve.

One day a group of other people visit. You have
never seen them before, but your friends welcome
them warmly, holding a great feast in their honor.
After everyone is through eating, the conversation
intensifies. You can tell that the cave people are
talking about a serious problem. Then, one by
one, they drift off to sleep. You walk outside to see
if you can learn anything. The ground is covered
with deep snow. A bitter cold wind blows the snow
in whirling clouds.

Next moming, the people pack up their belong-
ings and they urge you to do so also. Some migra-
tion is obviously intended—no doubt to a warmer
climate. You feel you should go with the cave
people, but you have a great longing to return to
your own home, and your only hope of doing so is —
to find your way back to the Cave of Time.

If you go with the cave people,
turn to page 46.

Tf you try to find your way back to
the Cave of Time, tum to page 47.

=== Step 9: Page 47 ===
Page 47

You pack up your few belongings. The one you
prize most is a knife carved from the tusk of a
wooly mammoth. You wave goodbye to your
friends and trudge through the snow, trying to
retrace your steps back to the Cave of Time.
Though the wind is colder than ever, the bright sun
stirs your hopes.

You have become much more rugged from liv-
ing with the cave people, and your crude animal-
skin clothes keep you surprisingly warm. You find
your way down into the canyon and in a few hours

=== Step 10: Page 48 ===
Page 48

reach the entrance to the cave, now almost cov-
ered with blowing snow.

You are exhausted from the long trek, and your
eyes are watering from the cold wind. You hardly
notice the large, gray shape only a few yards from
the entrance to the cave until you hear the deep,
guttural growl of a wolf. Now you stare directly into
its cold, cruel eyes. You feel that at your slightest
movement it will spring at you. You must think
what to do before you move. You probably could
outrun the wolf to the cave. It might hesitate before
following you—and give you enough time to
escape—or you could try to knife the wolf in the
throat as it leaps at you.

If you run for the cave,
tum to page 49.

If you prepare to fight,
turn to page 50.

=== Step 11: Page 50 ===
Page 50

fF 50

Holding your knife with its long ivory blade
pointing upward, you advance very slowly, step by
step, toward the wolf, which stands growling softly,
apparently confused by your boldness.

Then it springs. You lunge with your knife, twist-
ing your body to avoid its awesome fangs. Your
knife cuts through nothing but air, but the wolf
succeeds only in tearing off your bearskin coat. It
stops for an instantto sniff at the coat, and you tum
and plunge your knife into its neck. The wolf twists,
looks at you with hate in its eyes, and falls limp, its
spinal cord severed.

Now you are a true Stone Age hunter. You skin
the wolf and walk into the cave.

You follow the right-hand tunnel, thinking you
may find your way back to your own time, but
suddenly you feel yourself falling—faster and fast-
er into what seems a bottomless pit.

Tum to page 81.

=== Step 12: Page 81 ===
Page 81

You feel yourself slowly regaining conscious-
ness. You are in your bed at Red Creek Ranch,
looking up at Uncle Howard. Standing nearby is a
friend of his who is a doctor.

“You took quite a bad fall climbing on those
rocks up in the canyon,” Uncle Howard says.
“Doc Parsons tells me he doesn’t know why you
didn’t break any bones. We were real worried
about you—thought you got lost in one of those
caves up there.”

You feel a bit dizzy and weak, so you just smile
and say nothing. Probably no one would believe
you anyway. Years later, though, you write a book
about your adventures in the Cave of Time.

The End
