Path: 2 -> 3 -> 5 -> 6 -> 114 -> 61 -> 104 -> 105 -> 109 -> 110

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 5 ===
Page 5

You wait until morning, but, as the rosy wisps of
dawn begin to light the eastern sky, a chill and
forbidding wind begins to blow.

If you seek shelter, turn to page 6.

If you brave the freezing wind to
see more of the coed abou you,
tum to page 16.

=== Step 4: Page 6 ===
Page 6

="

6

You step into a niche in the rocks to escape the
merciless blast of wind and lean back against the
rock wall. Suddenly it crumbles under your
weight, causing you to fall backward down a
muddy slope and into a pond.

The sun shines brightly down on youas you pick
yourself up, dripping wet, and wade to the grassy
shore. You look back at the rock, rising out of the
pond, but you can’t see where you fell through.

While you are collecting your senses, a horse
comes prancing up, its rider dressed in tin
armor—a knight out of the history books—
enough to make you laugh. The horseman lifts off
his helmet and laughs himself.

“What a place for a bath!” he calls out. “Well, it
was worth it—you re cleaner than a pig!’ He al-
most falls off his horse, he is laughing so hard. “But
climb on and I'll take you back to the castle,”’ he
says. ‘We'll see if we can’t make a human out of
you yet.”

If you accept the ride back to
the castle, tun to page 22.

If you decline the invitation and
try to find your way back into the
Cave of Time, tum to page 114.

=== Step 5: Page 114 ===
Page 114

There is a certain tone in the knight’s laughter
that does not inspire your trust, so you thank him
graciously and tell him you have other business to

attend to,
“Then go toit,” the knight replies. “Take care to

keep your business drier than yourself!”
He gallops off in a rush. You are glad to be rid of
him.
Eager to find the entrance to the Cave of Time,
you climb up behind the rock wall that slopes into
the pond. After searching for an hour, you find a
tunnel leading underground.

Tum to page 61.

=== Step 6: Page 61 ===
Page 61

You follow the tunnel downward a short dis-
tance, suddenly you are sliding. Your head strikes
something and you are knocked unconscious.

When you wake up, you find yourself by a small
lake, bordered by woods. A boy about twelve
years old is fishing nearby, but there is no one else
in sight. You go up and introduce yourself, hoping
you can find out what year it is without sounding
crazy.

Fortunately, the boy is friendly and good na-
tured. He tells you his name is Nick Tyler and that
he lives on Birch Street. He works in his father’s
business making candles and soap—the best in the
Colonies, he says.

If you tell him you come from
a future time, tum to page 104. 2

If you try to make up a
believable story, tum to page 106.

=== Step 7: Page 104 ===
Page 104

ij When you tell him you come from theTwentieth
Century through the Cave of Time, Nick smiles.
Then you tell him a little about life in your own
time—about cars and planes, telephones and tele-
vision. He listens intently, with a big grin on his
face, as if youare telling th funniest story ever told
“Pm so glad to meet you,” Nick says. “Tve
always wanted to know about life in the Twentieth
Century.” He tries to look serious, but begins to
laugh, thinking it’s all a joke.
“Seriously,” you say, (since you know he will
i 4 never believe you) “Ihave no home Do you know
of a place where I can stay?”

=== Step 8: Page 105 ===
Page 105

“Tm sure you can stay at our house,” he says
warmly. ““We have such a big family, one more
won't matter, but you must be willing to work in
the shop with the rest of us.”

Since you feel you hardly have any other
choice, you accept his offer and feel grateful when
his parents give you a good dinner and a comfort-
able bed. Nick tells you, with much seriousness,
that you are living in the year 1718 in Boston, the
principal town in the British colony of Mas-
sachusetts.

You soon become one of the family. They are
good people and treat you well. But each day you
have to work long hours boiling soap and pouring
it into molds, waiting on customers and doing
errands for Nick’s father, whom you have come to
know as Uncle Ted.

Your neighbor, Mr. Nelson, is a printer. He re-
cently returned from England with a printing press
and letter type he bought there. The business in-
terests you, and you consider working as his ap-
prentice, but to do so you would have to sign
papers indenturing yourself to work faithfully for
him for six full years.

If you decide to stay at home and
continue to work for Uncle Ted,
tum to page 107.

If you decide to be indentured
to be an apprentice in Mr. Nelson’s
printing business, turn to page 109.

=== Step 9: Page 109 ===
Page 109

You go to work in Mr. Nelson’s shop and soon
become proficient in the art of printing. But after
awhile, you become increasingly unhappy. Mr.
Nelson refuses to raise your wages or give you a
chance to own part of the business. There are no
jobs available for you in Boston, so you decide to
move to Philadelphia, where you have heard there
is a greater demand for printing.

Happily, Mr. Nelson agrees to release you from
your indenture, and by selling almost all your pos-
sessions, you are able to raise enough money to
engage passage on a coastal schooner. After along
and stormy voyage down the coast, your ship
docks early on a Sunday morning at the Market
Street wharf in Philadelphia.

You are tired and hungry and you use some of
your last money to buy a loaf of bread. Out of
curiosity, you follow some well-dressed people
into the Quaker meeting house. The people seat
themselves, but, following custom, no one speaks.
It is so peaceful you fall sound asleep. When you
awaken, the Quakers welcome you. One family
gives you lodging and, fortunately, you are able to
get a job with one of the two printers in the town.

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 10: Page 110 ===
Page 110

1 110

You work hard to improve your skills as a
printer. Within a few years, with the help of some
friends, you are able to raise enough money to go
into business on your own.

Your printing business thrives, and after awhile
you start your own newspaper. It begins to look as
if the Eighteenth Century is a pretty good time for
you to be alive.

The End
