Path: 2 -> 3 -> 5 -> 16 -> 24 -> 40 -> 115

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 5 ===
Page 5

You wait until morning, but, as the rosy wisps of
dawn begin to light the eastern sky, a chill and
forbidding wind begins to blow.

If you seek shelter, turn to page 6.

If you brave the freezing wind to
see more of the coed abou you,
tum to page 16.

=== Step 4: Page 16 ===
Page 16

You resolutely trudge along a rocky ridge. It has
been cleared of whirling snow by the fierce wind,
which bites and blows against your body.

The world seems transformed, and much for the
worse. You must find a house or a cabin—people
who can help you—or you will die.

As you ponder your fate, you stumble and fall,
plunging into a deep crevasse. You black out and
later awaken, still shivering, but in a warmer place
at least. By the dim amber light, you can see that
somehow you have fallen back into one of the
chambers in the Cave of Time. A passageway
leads to the right, another to the left. Does one lead
to the future and one to the past?

If you enter the left-hand passageway,
tum to page 24.

If you enter the right-hand passageway,
tum to page 25.

=== Step 5: Page 24 ===
Page 24

You follow the left passageway. It leads upward
to the surface. Before you, a grassy meadow
slopes down to a clear, fast-flowing stream; be-
yond it are pine-covered foothills stretching in the
distance toward snow-covered peaks. You might
be in Wyoming in your own time, but, whatever

: time it is, the world you see appears to be a hospi-
i table one.
i You notice a herd of buffalo grazing. But
i nowhere can you see a house, or fence, or road, or
| any sign of human presence. It is possible you are
living hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years ago.
| You gaze upward. One of the puffy, white
| cumulus clouds is moving in a strange fashion. It is
| descending! A spaceship is landing right before
your eyes, only a few hundred yards away!

If you hide from view,
tum to page 38.

Tf you go up to the spaceship,
tum to page 40.

=== Step 6: Page 40 ===
Page 40

You cautiously approach the spaceship and, to
your amazement, see that it is resting a foot or so
above the ground, without any visible mechanism
keeping it aloft. There are no engines, rocket
exhausts, port holes, landing gear, antennae, or
any equipment you might imagine a spaceship
would need. You realize it must be the product ofa
supremely advanced civilization.

Trusting that such people have leamed to be
loving toward others, you approach the ship. A
portal slides open, but all you can see within is
shimmering blue light. A large cube is thrust out
through the portal and lowered to the ground by
mechanical arms. The top of the cube is with-
drawn, leaving a pallet on which lie the sleeping
forms of three men and three women, dressed in
shrouds of animal skin. Their bodies and features
remind you of pictures you have seen depicting
the earliest men on earth. You have an impulse to
up aboard the spaceship before the portal
closes.

If you do, tum to page 115.

If not, tum to page 83.

=== Step 7: Page 115 ===
Page 115

You jump aboard and find yourself in a sealed
chamber. The walls surrounding you remind you
of the inside of a bathtub. It occurs to you that the
beings who control this spaceship have some
means of manipulating time. Could it be that the
Cave of Time is their creation? As you are thinking
these thoughts, you become increasingly drowsy.
In a moment you are asleep.

You awaken in darkness, wondering if you may
be traveling through space in the alien ship. There
is light coming toward you from one direction and
you get up and walk toward it. Then you realize
you are looking through the opening of your cave.
You huny out and, to your joy, find Snake Can-
yon just as you remembered it. You are back in
your own time.

It's a long while before you feel like visiting
Snake Canyon again. When you do, you find the
opening to the Cave of Time has been covered
over by a massive rock slide, and, you think to
yourself that may be just as well.

The End
