Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 20 -> 93 -> 32 -> 64 -> 65 -> 102

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 20 ===
Page 20

The tunnel to the left winds around like a spiral,
passing several more tunnels. You turn down one
of them, then climb steeply. In a few moments you
climb through a hole and emerge in a desert. The
weather is extremely hot—certainly over 100 de-
grees, but the sun is just about to set, so it should

| a be getting cooler. In the distance is a range of
y | mountains. which look extremely high, yet are
4 bare of snow. You have no idea whether youare in
i the past, the future, or the present. Then you see

something that fascinates and disturbs you. The

sand seems to be fused into yellowish glass as if
| heated in a furnace. As you examine the sand
| more closely, you feel the air getting even hotter.
| Suddenly you realize the sun is not setting, but
rising! The noontime temperature must be more
i than life can stand. As the sun rises higher, you feel
| a blistering wave of heat. The light is almost blind-
ing. Could it be that you are witnessing the end of
the world?

Tum to page 93.

=== Step 6: Page 93 ===
Page 93

You dive down into the tunnel, hoping you can
t make it back to an earlier time. Gratefully, you feel
? cool, damp air coming up from the cave. You are
curious to try the next tunnel you come to, thinking
: that it may show the state of the world just before it
; began to burn up from the intensifying heat of the
: dying sun, or that it might show what happened
afterward! But you suspect that a tunnel further on
might be more likely to lead you back to your own

time.

If you take the first tunnel,
tum to page 31.

If you take a tunnel further along
the way, turn to page 32

=== Step 7: Page 32 ===
Page 32

1g? 1

After following the passageway for a consider-
able distance, you enter a very large tunnel that
seems as likely as any to lead you back to your own
time. You continue along and soon notice that the
floor of the tunnel is becoming sandier. Perhaps
you are coming to a beach. Then the sand gives
way under your feet; you slide through sand and
rising dust. You cannot stop yourself—it is too

4 steep; then there is nothing under your feet, anda

} moment later you land in deep water. You swim to
the surface and catch your breath. You are in an
underwater grotto, which seems completely
sealed off except for a portion of its roof that is
open to the blue sky. You swim to a large, smooth
rock sloping into the water.

The sand is white, and the water transparent.
The rocks are made of crystalline material of the

fh most delicate shades of blue. For a moment you

+ are overwhelmed by the beauty of the scene be-

4 fore you, but you soon begin to wonder whether
youcan escape from it. There is no way of climbing
out through the opening in the roof.

You dive down in hopes of finding an underwa-
ter passageway that might lead to freedom, and
you find one! But could you swim through it before
running out of air?

‘ If you try to swim through
the undenwater tunnel,
tum to page 58.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 64.

=== Step 8: Page 64 ===
Page 64

Swimming through the underwater tunnel may
be the only way to get out of the grotto, but the risk
of drowning seems too great. You explore the
rocks in the grotto and think about how you might
possibly get up through the roof.

Suddenly a voice calls, “Hello.” You whirl
around and notice for the first time, huddled in the
comer, a woman with sparkling blue eyes and a
mysterious smile. She is sitting crosslegged,
propped against a rock which is shaped in a way
that gives her a comfortable seat. In her hands she
is holding a flute, and as you stare in amazement
she plays an unfamiliar melody with a sweetness
and purity of tone such as you have never heard.

“Hello,” you reply. ““Tell me—who are you and
how can we get out of here?”

“Sit down,” she says, “‘and relax. You have all
the time in the world.”

“What do you mean?” you reply. “I am
trapped. I slid down from the Cave of Time and I
want to get out.”

“Believe me,’’ the woman says, ‘‘there’s no way

=== Step 9: Page 65 ===
Page 65

to get out; but do not be concerned. It is a beautiful
place and you can be very happy here.”

“But we'll starve. How long have you been
here?” you exclaim.

“Forever and not at all,” she replies, “for this is
the part of the cave which leads neither to the past
nor to the future. Here, time does not exist, so, of
course, you will never be hungry or bored, and,
although you can never get out, you will be here
for no time at all.”

Turn to page 102.

=== Step 10: Page 102 ===
Page 102

You sit down and rest your chin in your hands,
unable to believe the fate that has befallen you. To
live forever in a timeless world seems worse than
death.

“Well, to tell the truth, there is a way to get back
to your own time,” the woman finally says, “but, if
you follow it, you will not be able to live forever.”

“1 don’t care,” you say. “Show me the way.”

“Very well,” she says, shaking her head in dis-
belief. ‘‘Dive under the rock ledge beneath me and
swim through the tunnel you will find there. You
will come up in your own time. Don’t worry, it’s
only a few yards. You can make it.”

You take a last look around, wave good-bye
and dive. A few seconds later you surface in a
pond just inside the entrance of the Cave of Time.
You swim to shore and run out through the cave
entrance into the open air, almost crashing into
your Uncle Howard, who has come looking for
you.

“You're late for dinner,” he says. “We won-
dered what happened to you. You ought to keep
better track of the time.”

The End

|
