Path: 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 10 -> 61 -> 106 -> 111 -> 112

=== Step 1: Page 2 ===
Page 2

You've hiked through Snake Canyon once be-
fore while visiting your Uncle Howard at Red
Creek Ranch, but you never noticed any cave
entrance. It looks as though a recent rock slide has
uncovered it.

Though the late afternoon sun is striking the
opening of the cave, the interior remains in total
darkness. You step inside a few feet, trying to get
an idea of how big it is. As your eyes become used
tothe dark, you see what looks like a tunnel ahead,
dimly lit by some kind of phosphorescent material
On its walls. The tunnel walls are smooth. as if they

=== Step 2: Page 3 ===
Page 3

were shaped by running water. After twenty feet or
so, the tunnel curves. You wonder where it leads.
You venture in a bit further, but you feel nervous
being alone in such a strange place. You turn and
hurry out.

A thunderstorm may be coming, judging by
how dark it looks outside. Suddenly you realize the
sun has long since set, and the landscape is lit only
by the pale light of the full moon. You must have
fallen asleep and woken up hours later. But then
you remember something even more strange. Just
last evening, the moon was only a slim crescent in
the sky.

You wonder how long you’ ve been in the cave.
Youare not hungry. You don’t feel you have been 4
sleeping. You wonder whether to try to walk back
home by moonlight or whether to wait for dawn,
rather than risk losing your footing on the steep
and rocky trail.

If you decide to start back home,
tum to page 4.

If you decide to wait,
tum to page 5.

=== Step 3: Page 4 ===
Page 4

As you start walking back toward the ranch, you
notice the trail seems very different than you re-
member it, though of course moonlight can play
tricks on your eyes. But you suddenly realize you
are not walking on the trail at all, but on what
seems to be a dried-up river bed. You hurry back
to the cave entrance. You look around you and
realize the whole landscape has changed. While
you were in the cave, torrents of water have
washed out the trail; yet there is not so much as a
puddle left. You shiver. Itis cold, much colder than
it should be at this time of year. You take a jacket
out of your backpack and putit on, but you are still
freezing.

Atleast the world about you seems brighter. It’s
getting light in the east. The sun will soon be up.
You look at your watch. It has run down, though
you wound it only a few hours ago. Nothing seems
% make sense anymore.

You know you should get back to the ranch as
quickly as possible; yet somehow you feel the only
way to change things back to the way they were is
to re-enter the cave.

If you continue toward the ranch,
tum to page 8.

If you go back into the cave,
tum to page 10.

=== Step 4: Page 10 ===
Page 10

You walk into the interior of the strange cavern;
then wait while your eyes become accustomed to
the dim, amber light. Gradually you can make out

} the two tunnels. One curves downward to the
4 right; the other leads upward to the left.

| It occurs to you that the one leading down may
q go to the pastand the one leading up may go to the
4 future.

If you take the tunnel leading to the left,
turn to page 20.

If you take the tunnel leading to the right,
turn to page 61.

If you walk outside the cave again,
tum to page 21.

=== Step 5: Page 61 ===
Page 61

You follow the tunnel downward a short dis-
tance, suddenly you are sliding. Your head strikes
something and you are knocked unconscious.

When you wake up, you find yourself by a small
lake, bordered by woods. A boy about twelve
years old is fishing nearby, but there is no one else
in sight. You go up and introduce yourself, hoping
you can find out what year it is without sounding
crazy.

Fortunately, the boy is friendly and good na-
tured. He tells you his name is Nick Tyler and that
he lives on Birch Street. He works in his father’s
business making candles and soap—the best in the
Colonies, he says.

If you tell him you come from
a future time, tum to page 104. 2

If you try to make up a
believable story, tum to page 106.

=== Step 6: Page 106 ===
Page 106

You do your best to make up a story about how
you ran away from home, but Nick sees that you
are not telling him the truth. While you’re talking,
he packs up his fishing gear, says goodbye, and
walks off.

Once he is out of sight, you start down the road
and, after a mile or so, reach a settled area. While
youare standing near a church, wondering what to
do next, a constable approaches and asks where
you're from. This time you try to explain what
really happened. After listening awhile, he arrests
you for disorderly conduct and locks you up in the

local jail.
Later in the day, a big, stupid-looking guard
i comes to bring you a ration of soup and bread. He
4 is fascinated by your strange clothes and by the

i rumors he has heard about you. After opening the
door to your cell, he hands you your food and
i stands back and looks at you curiously.
“They say you're in league with the devil,” he
says. “Is it so?”

If you try to run past the guard
and escape, tum to page 111.

7) If you tell him you are innocent,
turn to page 113.

=== Step 7: Page 111 ===
Page 111

The guard is too startled, and maybe even too
afraid, to stop you as you dart past him and out of
the jail house. You run down the street as fast as
you can. As you stop to catch your breath, a thin,
bearded man drivinga coach pulls up next to you.

“You seem to be in some trouble,” he calls out.
“Can I be of help?”

Too tired to make up any story, you begin to tell
him everything that has happened to you. He is
very excited by your story and invites you to a
nearby tavern, where you have your first good
meal since you left Red Creek ranch. Your host
hardly eats anything. He looks pale and seems to
have a bad cough.

Go on to the next page.

=== Step 8: Page 112 ===
Page 112

When you finish recounting your tale, he says,
“tis strange that we have met. I have tuberculosis,
and no doctor in Boston can help me. My only
hope is to reach a future time.”

“T think it’s my only hope too,” you say.

“Tf we help each other, I think we can find our
way back to your time—my new time,” he replies.

The two of you shake hands on it and set out on
your quest the next day at sunrise.

Together, you are successful in finding your way
to the present time. Your friend from the past is
cured with the help of modern medicines and later
becomes a history teacher who is known through-
out the country for his amazing knowledge of life in
colonial America.

The End
